"The best thing for being sad," replied Merlin, beginning to puff and blow, "is to learn something. That's the 
only thing that never fails. You may grow old and trembling in your anatomies, you may lie awake at night listening 
to the disorder of your veins, you may miss your only love, you may see the world about you devastated by evil lunatics, 
or know your honour trampled in the sewers of baser minds. There is only one thing for it then - to learn. Learn 
why the world wags and what wags it. That is the only thing which the mind can never exhaust, never alienate, never 
be tortured by, never fear or distrust, and never dream of regretting. Learning is the only thing for you. Look what 
a lot of things there are to learn." 
"A fight is going on inside me," said an old man to his son. "It is a terrible fight between two wolves. One wolf is evil. He is anger, envy, sorrow, regret, greed, arrogance, self-pity, guilt, resentment, inferiority, lies, false pride, superiority, and ego. The other wolf is good. he is joy, peace, love, hope, serenity, humility, kindness, benevolence, empathy, generosity, truth, compassion, and faith. The same fight is going on inside you."

The son thought about it for a minute and then asked, "Which wolf will win?"

The old man replied simply, "The one you feed." 
The real story of the Fleece: there were these two children of Zeus, Cadmus and Europa, okay? They were about to get offered up as human sacrifices, when they prayed to Zeus to save them. So Zeus sent this magical flying ram with golden wool, which picked them up in Greece and carried them all the way to Colchis in Asia Minor. Well, actually it carried Cadmus. Europa fell off and died along the way, but that's not important.
Fantasy is silver and scarlet, indigo and azure, obsidian veined with gold and lapis lazuli. Reality is plywood and
 plastic, done up in mud brown and olive drab. Fantasy tastes of habaneros and honey, cinnamon and cloves, rare red
 meat and wines as sweet as summer. Reality is beans and tofu, and ashes at the end. Reality is the strip malls of
 Burbank, the smokestacks of Cleveland, a parking garage in Newark. Fantasy is the towers of Minas Tirith, the
 ancient stones of Gormenghast, the halls of Camelot. Fantasy flies on the wings of Icarus, reality on Southwest
 Airlines. Why do our dreams become so much smaller when they finally come true?
People disappear when they die. Their voice, their laughter, the warmth of their breath. Their flesh. 
Eventually their bones. All living memory of them ceases. This is both dreadful and natural. Yet for some there 
is an exception to this annihilation. For in the books they write they continue to exist. We can rediscover 
them. Their humor, their tone of voice, their moods. Through the written word they can anger you or make you 
happy. They can comfort you. They can perplex you. They can alter you. All this, even though they are dead. 
Like flies in amber, like corpses frozen in the ice, that which according to the laws of nature should pass 
away is, by the miracle of ink on paper, preserved. It is a kind of magic.
A book is made from a tree. It is an assemblage of flat, flexible parts (still called "leaves") imprinted with 
dark pigmented squiggles. One glance at it and you hear the voice of another person, perhaps someone dead 
for thousands of years. Across the millennia, the author is speaking, clearly and silently, inside your 
head, directly to you. Writing is perhaps the greatest of human inventions, binding together people, citizens 
of distant epochs, who never knew one another. Books break the shackles of time  proof that humans can work magic.
If you want to write, if you want to create, you must be the most sublime fool that God ever turned out and 
sent rambling. You must write every single day of your life. You must read dreadful dumb books and glorious 
books, and let them wrestle in beautiful fights inside your head, vulgar one moment, brilliant the next. You 
must lurk in libraries and climb the stacks like ladders to sniff books like perfumes and wear books like hats 
upon your crazy heads. I wish you a wrestling match with your Creative Muse that will last a lifetime. I 
wish craziness and foolishness and madness upon you. May you live with hysteria, and out of it make fine 
stories - science fiction or otherwise. Which finally means, may you be in love every day for the next 20,000 
days. And out of that love, remake a world.
If you didn't know what sleep was, and you had only seen it in a science fiction movie, you would think it was 
weird and tell all your friends about the movie you'd seen.

They had these people, you know? And they would walk around all day and be OK? And then, once a day, usually 
after dark, they would lie down on these special platforms and become unconscious. They would stop 
functioning almost completely, except deep in their minds they would have adventures and experiences that 
were completely impossible in real life. As they lay there, completely vulnerable to their enemies, their 
only movements were to occasionally shift from one position to another; or, if one of the 'mind adventures' got 
too real, they would sit up and scream and be glad they weren't unconscious anymore. Then they would drink a lot of coffee.
The unreal is more powerful than the real. Because nothing is as perfect as you can imagine it. 
Because its only intangible ideas, concepts, beliefs, fantasies that last. Stone crumbles. 
Wood rots. People, well, they die. But things as fragile as a thought, a dream, a legend, they 
can go on and on. If you can change the way people think. The way they see themselves. The way 
they see the world. You can change the way people live their lives. That's the only lasting 
thing you can create.
To be, or not to be: that is the question:
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
And by opposing end them? To die: to sleep;
No more; and by a sleep to say we end
The heart-ache and the thousand natural shocks
That flesh is heir to, 'tis a consummation
Devoutly to be wish'd. To die, to sleep;
To sleep: perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub;
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
Must give us pause: there's the respect
That makes calamity of so long life;
For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
The pangs of despised love, the law's delay,
The insolence of office and the spurns
That patient merit of the unworthy takes,
When he himself might his quietus make
With a bare bodkin? who would fardels bear,
To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
But that the dread of something after death,
The undiscover'd country from whose bourn
No traveller returns, puzzles the will
And makes us rather bear those ills we have
Than fly to others that we know not of?
Thus conscience does make cowards of us all;
And thus the native hue of resolution
Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
And enterprises of great pith and moment
With this regard their currents turn awry,
And lose the name of action.--Soft you now!
The fair Ophelia! Nymph, in thy orisons
Be all my sins remember'd!
